Added both reporting articles (#5580)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/reporting-api-migration/index.md

  endpoints**.
  {% endCompareCaption %}
  {% endCompare %}

- The scope of the report is different.

  {% Compare 'worse', 'v0 (legacy)' %}

  With v0, you can set reporting endpoints on some responses only. Other documents (pages)
  on that origin would automatically use these ambient endpoints.

  {% endCompare %}

  {% Compare 'better', 'v1 (new)' %}

  With v1, you need to set the `Reporting-Endpoints` header on all responses that might
  generate reports. {% endCompare %}

- Both APIs support the same report types, with one exception: v1 does not support
  **Network Error reports**. Read more in the [migration steps](#migration-steps).
- v0 is not and will not be supported across browsers. v1 is more likely to be supported
  across multiple browsers in the future.

### What remains unchanged

- The format and structure of the reports is unchanged.
- The request sent by the browser to the endpoint remains a POST request of "Content-type"
  `application/reports+json`.
- Mapping certain endpoints to certain report types is supported in both v0 and v1.
- The formatting of the rules that generate reports when violated is unchanged.
- The role of the default endpoint is unchanged.

> - The Reporting API v1 has no impact on the [ReportingObserver](/reporting-observer).
>   ReportingObserver continues getting access to all observable reports, and their format is
>   identical.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Reporting API v1 has no impact on the [`ReportingObserver`](/reporting-observer).
  `ReportingObserver` continues getting access to all observable reports, and their format is
  identical.
```

browser support may be coming. There are no tracking bugs for
these browsers at the moment but this may change. {% endAside
%}

1. **Step 1 (do now)**: Use both headers: `Report-To` (v0) and `Reporting-Endpoints` (v1).

   With this, you get:

   - Reports from newer Chrome and Edge clients thanks to `Reporting-Endpoints` (v1).
   - Reports from older Chrome and Edge clients thanks
     to `Report-To` (v0).

   Browser instances that support `Reporting-Endpoints` will use
   `Reporting-Endpoints`, and instances that don't will fallback to `Report-To`.
   The
   request and report format is the same for v0 and v1.

2. **Step 2 (do now):** Ensure that the `Reporting-Endpoints` header is set on all
   responses that might generate reports.

   With v0, you could set reporting endpoints on some responses only, and other documents
   (pages) on that origin would use this "ambient" endpoint. With v1, because of the
   difference in scoping, you need to set the `Reporting-Endpoints` header on all
   responses that might generate reports.

3. **Step 3 (start later):** Once all or most of your users have updated to later Chrome

>    or Edge installs (93 and later), remove **Report-To** (v0) and keep only
>    `Reporting-Endpoints`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   or Edge installs (93 and later), remove `Report-To` (v0) and keep only
   `Reporting-Endpoints`.
```

>    One exception: if you do need Network Error Logging reports, keep **Report-To** until a
>    new mechanim is in place for Network Error Logging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   One exception: if you do need Network Error Logging reports, keep `Report-To` until a
   new mechanism is in place for Network Error Logging.
```

However, [only a few browsers support `report-to`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/report-to). Thus it's recommended that you keep `report-uri` alongside the Reporting API approach (`Report-To` or better, `Reporting-Endpoints`) in order to get CSP violation reports from multiple browsers.
In a browser which recognizes `report-uri` and `report-to`, `report-uri` will be ignored if `report-to` is present. In a browser which recognizes only `report-uri`, only `report-uri` will be considered.

1. **Step 1 (do now)**: If you haven't added it yet, add `report-to` alongside `report-uri`.
   Browsers that support only `report-uri` (Firefox) will use `report-uri`, and browsers
   that also support `report-to`(Chrome, Edge) will use `report-to`.

2. **Step 2 (do now)**: To specify the named endpoints you'll use in `report-to`, use both
   headers `Report-To` and `Reporting-Endpoints`. This ensures that you get reports from
   both older and newer Chrome and Edge clients.

3. **Step 3 (start later):** Once all or most of your users have updated to later Chrome

>    or Edge installs (93 and later), remove **Report-To** (v0) and keep only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   or Edge installs (93 and later), remove `Report-To` (v0) and keep only
```

   `Reporting-Endpoints`. Keep `report-uri` so you still get reports for browsers that
   only support it.

See code examples in the [migration cookbook](#csp-reporting-migration).

> ### Migration Cookbook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Migration cookbook
```

#### Basic migration

{% Compare 'worse', 'Legacy code (with v0)' %}

```http
Report-To: { group: "main-endpoint", "endpoints": [ { "url": "https://reports.example/main" }] }, { group: "default-endpoint", "endpoints": [ { "url": "https://reports.example/default" }] }
```

{% endCompare %}

{% Compare 'better', 'New code (transition code with v0 alongside v1)' %}

```http
Reporting-Endpoints: main-endpoint="https://reports.example/main", default="https://reports.example/default"
Report-To: { group: "main-endpoint", "max_age": 86400, "endpoints": [ { "url": "https://reports.example/main" }] }, { group: "default-endpoint", "max_age": 86400, "endpoints": [ { "url": "https://reports.example/default" }] }
```

{% CompareCaption %}

If you already have reporting functionality in your site, keep `Report-To` **only temporarily** (until most Chrome and Edge clients have been updated) to avoid losing reports.

> If you need Network Error Logging, keep `Report-To` **until Network Error Logging has a new replacement**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need Network Error Logging, keep `Report-To` **until Network Error Logging replacement is available**.
```

---
layout: post

> title: Migrate to the Reporting API v1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Migrate to Reporting API v1
```

subhead: |
  A new version of the Reporting API is available. It's simpler, more private, and more likely to be supported across browsers.
authors:
  - maudn
date: 2021-06-14
updated: 2021-06-14
description: |

>   Migrate to the new Reporting API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  A new version of the Reporting API is available. It's simpler, more private, and more likely to be supported across browsers. This post goes over how to migrate to the new version of the Reporting API.
```

hero: image/O2RNUyVSLubjvENAT3e7JSdqSOx1/PYEe5UP3bVYzPMXdQc0X.jpg
alt: |
  A person and their refection on wet sand, symbolizing the migration from the legacy to the new Reporting API.
tags:
  - blog # blog is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - monitoring
  - security
---

{% Banner 'caution', 'body' %} This post covers how to migrate to the new version of the
Reporting API (v1). If you're new to the Reporting API or need detailed usage examples,
head over to the [main post on the Reporting API](/reporting-api) instead. {% endBanner %}

The Reporting API informs you about errors that happen across your site as visitors use
it. It gives you visibility on browser interventions, browser crashes,
Content-Security-Policy violations, COOP/COEP violations, deprecation warnings and more.

**A new version of the Reporting API is available. It's simpler, more private, and more
likely to be supported across browsers.**

{% Aside %} The legacy Reporting API is named _Reporting API v0_. The new Reporting API is
named _Reporting API v1_. {% endAside %}

## Summary

> {% Banner 'info', 'body' %}
> 
> If you already have reporting functionality for your site, **migrate to v1**
> (`Reporting-Endpoints` header) but keep the v0 header (`Report-To`) around for some time.
> 
> If you're adding reporting functionality to your site just now, use only v1 (`Reporting-Endpoints` header).
> 
> Make sure to set the `Reporting-Endpoints` header on all responses that might generate
> reports.
> 
> If you're maintaining an endpoint service or are operating your own, expect **more
> traffic** as you or external developers migrate to v1 (`Reporting-Endpoints` header).
> 
> {% endBanner %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If you already have reporting functionality for your site, **migrate to v1**
(`Reporting-Endpoints` header) but keep the v0 header (`Report-To`) around for some time.

If you're adding reporting functionality to your site just now, use only v1 (`Reporting-Endpoints` header).

Make sure to set the `Reporting-Endpoints` header on all responses that might generate
reports.

If you're maintaining an endpoint service or are operating your own, expect **more
traffic** as you or external developers migrate to v1 (`Reporting-Endpoints` header).

```

Reviewer: This is too much text for a banner, I think it's easier to read on a plain background. It's already in its own section that should be enough.

Keep reading for details and example code!

## Network Error Logging

{% Banner 'caution', 'body' %}

If you use [Network Error Logging](https://w3c.github.io/network-error-logging/), continue using `Report-To` (v0) because Network Error Logging isn't
supported in the Reporting API v1. A new mechanism for Network Error Logging will be
developed⏤until that's available, the Reporting API v0 should be used.
**As of June 2021**, this new mechanism is not shipped yet.

{% endBanner %}

## Demo and code

> - [Demo site: new reporting API (v1)](https://reporting-api-demo.glitch.me)

Reviewer: I'm on Chrome 91.0.4472.77 and at first I got 0 reports on the reporting endpoint page. Tried refreshing multiple times. I

When I tried it in Canary, I initially got 1 report, then it jumped to 4 reports. I had that same page opened in my Chrome 91 instance and it also got updated to show 4 reports.

I also couldn't find the --short-reporting-delay flag in either 91 or Canary.

AI:
- Verify that this really works in Chrome 91.
- Check the demo behaviour when multiple users visit it.
- Clarify where to find the flag and what it does.

Another thing: You might want to "boost" this app on Glitch, it was asleep when I clicked and it took a while for it to load.

Reviewer: Once that's cleared up, consider embedding this demo. I know there's not much to see on that first demo page, but at least readers will get a preview of what the demo is about.

Author: > When I tried it in Canary, I initially got 1 report, then it jumped to 4 reports
I think this is due to the missing flag --short-reporting-delay.

>  I also couldn't find the --short-reporting-delay flag in either 91 or Canary.
Oh so it's a CLI flag only, not available from the UI! Will need to update the text so readers aren't confused.

Can you maybe try the demo with the flag on (via your terminal)? Instructions are in the article.
Thank you!

Author: The correct version number was 93. Done:
- Updated version number to 93 in the demo
- Clarified that the flags are CLI-only i.e. not in the Chrome UI, in both the demo page and here in the article where relevant https://deploy-preview-5580--web-dev-staging.netlify.app/reporting-api/#saving-time

> Another thing: You might want to "boost" this app on Glitch, it was asleep when I clicked and it took a while for it to load.
oh yes great tip. I thought that glitch demos under the web.dev team were automatically boosted. Is it not the cae and so I need to boost it manually?

Author: Demos are now boosted.
(Note: TIL glitch demos under the web.dev team are automatically rate-UNlimited, but not automatically boosted. I purchased a Pro membership in order to boost them.)
